# project

The final project is a work of exposition/tutorial in which you explore a topic related to machine learning for causal inference both analytically and computationally. Discuss the foundations for this work in statistics or related fields. Then, choose and focus on some aspect of how this work has developed, competing methodologies or debates with associated benefits and drawbacks, and directions for future research. Demonstrate these ideas with a computational example (i.e. write code). The deliverable is a 5 page paper that should include focused code snippets (if appropriate) and key output as well as a script or notebook and related data that can be run all the way through after setting the working directory. For example, you can write an Rmd or Jupyter notebook where only the most important code and output for understanding your point is shown in the pdf output (there should not be extraneous code in the report). The reader of your report should come away with a good understanding of the strengths and drawbacks of the method/theme as well as how to use them effectively. The class demonstration is a good place to start for this project, but you are not required to have your project be an extension of your class demonstration.

You will be graded not only on the accuracy of your analysis, but also on the clarity of your exposition, which includes notation, typesetting (equation alignment, exceeding margins), grammar, figures, tables, etc. All code should be reproducible--please provide any supporting files necessary with your submission. The more difficult it is to read your work, the fewer points you will receive. Follow a coding style guide (e.g. https://style.tidyverse.org/ and https://peps.python.org/pep-0008/) and stick to it. The expectation is for polished work.

Alternatively, students may submit original work, such as a research proposal for a project they are working on. This option is available with instructor permission only.
